# Launch Instance
This guide helps to launch a running instance (virtual machine) with SSH login enabled.

## Preparation
You need to create a public/private key pairs before you can use SSH to login to the newly created instance. The public will be inserted into the instance and the private key is used on your desktop/laptop.

#### Windows User
Use PuTTYgen key generator to generate the required key pair.
1. Download PuTTYgen (puttygen.exe) from [PuTTYgen download page][putty]
2. Launch the PuTTYgen application by double clicking the puttygen.exe
3. Default setting is fine for this case, click the 'Generate' button
4. Save your public key by clicking 'Save public key' button. You should give a name that you can better identify the key in the future
5. Save your private key by clicking 'Save private key' button. It is the same as public key to give a sensible name for future reference. Ignore the passphrase

#### Linux/Mac User
Type ssh-keygen in console and enter. This generates a public key (id_rsa.pub) and a private key(id_rsa). By default, the two keys are located in ~/.ssh

#### Import Public Key
Public key generated by Windows/Linux/Mac are required to be imported into NeCTAR cloud dash board before use.
1. Log into the dashboard at [Cloud Dashboard][dashboard]
2. Go to Access and Security Tab and then to the Keypairs page
3. Click 'Import Key Pair' button
4. Type in a keypair name and paste the contents of the public key. For Windows User, open PuTTYgen and click 'Load' button to load the related private key and copy/paste the public key contents. For Linux/Mac user, type cat id_rsa.pub and copy/paste the public key contest from console output

#### NeCTAR Cloud Dashboard
Key pairs can also be created directly through the NeCTAR Cloud Dashboard.
1. login to the dashboard at [Cloud Dashboard][dashboard]
2. Go to Access and Security Tab and then to the Keypairs page
3. Click 'Create Key Pair' button
4. Type in a keypair name in the pop out window and click 'Create Key Pair' button
5. Save the private key into a directory

Notes:
If you are running a Windows machine the SSH private key may need to be converted (use PuTTYgen for converting keys)
1. Open PuTTYgen
2. Click 'Load' button to load private key
3. Click 'Export OpenSSH key' from 'Conversions' menu
4. Type a private key name and save

## Boot Instance
1. login to the dashboard at [Cloud Dashboard][dashboard]
2. Go to Dashboard Instances tab
3. Click 'Launch Instance' button
4. Type instance name
5. Select a flavour. Flavour indicates the specification of a instance. You can find more information in the Flavour Details.
6. Select an NeCTAR offical image (we suggest selecting a Ubuntu image such as NeCTAR Ubuntu 14.10 (Utopic) amd64)
7. Click Access & Security tab
8. Select a key pair created earlier
9. Select security groups to use. Tick 'ssh' and 'http' (these are pre-defined group)
10. Click AVailability Zone
11. Select the location of your instance or leave as unselected(the system will auto select available location)
12. Click launch button and the page will change to the Instances Tab
13. After a while(usually a couple of minutes), your instance will become active and will have an IP address. The IP address is available in the Instances table

## Log Into Instance
You can use a SSH client to log into the instance created earlier.

#### Windows User
1. Download PuTTY(putty.exe) from [PuTTY download page][putty]
2. Double click putty.exe
3. Copy/paste the IP address to Host Name
4. Expand the SSH item under Connection on the right side Category and click Auth
5. Click the Browse button and select the created private key earlier
6. Click Session on the right side Category
7. Click Open button
8. Type username ubuntu for Ubuntu image and root for other images

#### Linux/Mac User
1. Type ssh -i privatkeyname ubuntu@XX.XX.XX.XX in console
2. Replace privatekeyname with the created private key name earlier. You also need to specify the full path for the private key
3. Replace ubuntu with root if you are not using Ubuntu image
4. Replace XX.XX.XX.XX with the IP address located in Instances page

Note:
Type chmod 600 privatekey to set permission for the private key and your account is the owner of the private key file.

[dashboard]: https://dashboard.rc.nectar.org.au
[putty]: http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html